README.md, before:

# Name

Module::Provision - Create Perl distributions with VCS and selectable toolchain

# Version

This documents version v0.9.$Rev: 8 $ of [Module::Provision](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision)

# Synopsis

    # To reduce typing define a shell alias
    alias mp='module_provision --base ~/Projects'

    # Create a new distribution in your Projects directory with Git VCS
    mp dist Foo::Bar 'Optional one line abstract'

    # Add another module
    cd ~/Projects/Foo-Bar
    mp module Foo::Bat 'Optional one line abstract'

    # Add a program to the bin directory
    mp program bar-cli 'Optional one line abstract'

    # Add another test script
    mp test 11another-one.t

    # Update the version numbers of the project files
    mp update_version 0.1 0.2

    # Regenerate meta data files
    mp generate_metadata

    # Command line help
    mp -? | -H | -h [sub-command] | list_methods | dump_self

# Description

[Module::Provision](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision) is used to create a skeletal CPAN distribution,
including basic builder scripts, tests, documentation, and module
code. It creates a VCS repository and, in the Git case, installs some
hooks that mimic the RCS Revision keyword expansion

On first use the directory `~/.module\_provision` is created and
populated with templates and an index file `index.json`. The author
name, id, and email are derived from the system (the environment
variables `AUTHOR` and `EMAIL` take precedence) and stored in the
`author`, `author\_id`, and `author\_email` files

If the default builder (`MB`) is used, then the project file
`Build.PL` loads `inc::Bob` which instantiates an inline subclass of
[Module::Build](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Build). The code for the subclass is in
`inc::SubClass`. The file `inc::CPANTesting` allows for fine grained
control over which tests are run by which CPAN Testing smokers

If the Git VCS is used `precommit` and `commit-msg` hooks are
installed. The `precommit` hook will expand the RCS Revision keyword
in files on the master branch if the file `.distribution\_name.rev`
exists in the parent of the working tree. The `precommit` hook will
also update the version number and date/time stamp in the change log
(`Changes`).  The `commit-msg` hook will extract the first comment
line from the change log and use it as the commit message header. The
remainder of the commit message (if any) is used as the commit message
body. This means that so long as one detail line is added to the
change log no other commit message text is required. The following
makes for a suitable `git log` alias:

    alias gl='git log -10 --pretty=format:"%h %ci %s" | cut -c1-79'

The templates contain comment lines like:

    # @(#)Ident: Provision.pm 2013-04-15 13:52 pjf ;

These are expanded automatically by Emacs using this Lisp code:

    (setq time-stamp-active     t
          time-stamp-line-limit 10
          time-stamp-format     " %f %04y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M %u "
          time-stamp-start      "Ident:"
          time-stamp-time-zone  "GMT"
          time-stamp-end        ";")

The alias:

    alias ident='ack "@\(#\)"'

uses the [App::Ack](https://metacpan.org/module/App::Ack) program to implement the old SYSV R4 `ident`
command

The templates for `dist.ini`, `Build.PL`, and `Makefile.PL`
contain the following comments which are interpreted by Emacs:

    # Local Variables:
    # mode: perl
    # eval: (load-project-state "[% appdir %]")
    # tab-title: [% project %]
    # tab-width: 3
    # End:

Perl mode is preferred over C-Perl mode since the former has better
syntax highlighting. Tabs are expanded to three spaces. The
`tab-title` variable is used by [Yakuake::Sessions](https://metacpan.org/module/Yakuake::Sessions) to set the tab
title for the terminal emulator. The `load-project-state` Lisp looks
like this:

    (defun load-project-state (state-file) "Recovers the TinyDesk state from file"
       (let ((session-path (concat "~/.emacs.d/config/state." state-file)))
          (if (file-exists-p session-path) (tinydesk-recover-state session-path)
             (message (concat "Not found: " state-file)))))

It assumes that the TinyDesk state file containing the list of files to edit
for the project has been saved in `~/.emacs.d/config/state.\[% appdir %\]`. To
work on a project; change directory to the working copy, edit the project
file `Build.PL` with Emacs, this will load all of the other files in the
project into separate buffers displaying each in the tab bar. This Lisp code
will load TinyDesk and turn tab bar mode on whenever a Perl file is edited:

    (add-hook 'perl-mode-hook
              '(lambda ()
                 (require 'fic-mode) (turn-on-fic-mode) (diminish 'fic-mode nil)
                 (require 'psvn) (require 'tinydesk) (tabbar-mode t)
                 (require 'tinyperl) (diminish 'tinyperl-mode nil)))

This Lisp code will do likewise when a `dist.ini` file is edited:

    (add-hook 'conf-windows-mode-hook
              '(lambda ()
                 (require 'tinydesk) (tabbar-mode t)))

# Configuration and Environment

Extends [Module::Provision::Base](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::Base). Applies these traits; `AddingFiles`,
`CreatingDistributions`, `Rendering`, and `UpdatingContent`

Defines no attributes

# Subroutines/Methods

## dist

    module_provision dist Foo::Bar 'Optional one line abstract'

Create a new distribution specified by the module name on the command line

## generate\_metadata

    module_provision generate_metadata

Generates the distribution metadata files

## init\_templates

    module_provision init_templates

Initialise the `.module\_provision` directory and create the `index.json` file

## module

    module_provision module Foo::Bat 'Optional one line abstract'

Creates a new module specified by the class name on the command line

## program

    module_provision program bar-cli 'Optional one line abstract'

Creates a new program specified by the program name on the command line

## test

    module_provision test 11another-one.t

Creates a new test specified by the test file name on the command line

## update\_copyright\_year

    module_provision update_copyright_year 2013 2014

Substitutes the existing copyright year for the new copyright year in all
files in the `MANIFEST`

## update\_version

    module_provision update_version 0.1 0.2

Substitutes the existing version number for the new version number in all
files in the `MANIFEST`

# Diagnostics

Add `-D` to command line to turn on debug output

# Dependencies

- [Class::Usul](https://metacpan.org/module/Class::Usul)
- [Module::Provision::Base](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::Base)
- [Module::Provision::TraitFor::CreatingDistributions](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::TraitFor::CreatingDistributions)
- [Module::Provision::TraitFor::AddingFiles](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::TraitFor::AddingFiles)
- [Module::Provision::TraitFor::UpdatingContent](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::TraitFor::UpdatingContent)

# Incompatibilities

There are no known incompatibilities in this module

# Bugs and Limitations

There are no known bugs in this module.  Please report problems to
http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Module-Provision.  Source
code is on Github git://github.com/pjfl/Module-Provision.git. Patches
and pull requests are welcome

# Acknowledgements

Larry Wall - For the Perl programming language

[Module::Starter](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Starter) - For some of the documentation and tests

# Author

Peter Flanigan, `<pjfl@cpan.org>`

# License and Copyright

Copyright (c) 2013 Peter Flanigan. All rights reserved

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself. See [perlartistic](https://metacpan.org/module/perlartistic)

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE

Commit message:

0.9.10 Added edit_project and show_tab_title        methods

README.md, after:

# Name

Module::Provision - Create Perl distributions with VCS and selectable toolchain

# Version

This documents version v0.9.$Rev: 10 $ of [Module::Provision](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision)

# Synopsis

    # To reduce typing define a shell alias
    alias mp='module_provision --base ~/Projects'

    # Create a new distribution in your Projects directory with Git VCS
    mp dist Foo::Bar 'Optional one line abstract'

    # Add another module
    cd ~/Projects/Foo-Bar
    mp module Foo::Bat 'Optional one line abstract'

    # Add a program to the bin directory
    mp program bar-cli 'Optional one line abstract'

    # Add another test script
    mp test 11another-one.t

    # Edit the project files
    mp -q edit_project

    # Update the version numbers of the project files
    mp update_version 0.1 0.2

    # Regenerate meta data files
    mp generate_metadata

    # Command line help
    mp -? | -H | -h [sub-command] | list_methods | dump_self

# Description

[Module::Provision](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision) is used to create a skeletal CPAN distribution,
including basic builder scripts, tests, documentation, and module
code. It creates a VCS repository and, in the Git case, installs some
hooks that mimic the RCS Revision keyword expansion

On first use the directory `~/.module\_provision` is created and
populated with templates and an index file `index.json`. The author
name, id, and email are derived from the system (the environment
variables `AUTHOR` and `EMAIL` take precedence) and stored in the
`author`, `author\_id`, and `author\_email` files

If the default builder (`MB`) is used, then the project file
`Build.PL` loads `inc::Bob` which instantiates an inline subclass of
[Module::Build](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Build). The code for the subclass is in
`inc::SubClass`. The file `inc::CPANTesting` allows for fine grained
control over which tests are run by which CPAN Testing smokers

If the Git VCS is used `precommit` and `commit-msg` hooks are
installed. The `precommit` hook will expand the RCS Revision keyword
in files on the master branch if the file `.distribution\_name.rev`
exists in the parent of the working tree. The `precommit` hook will
also update the version number and date/time stamp in the change log
(`Changes`).  The `commit-msg` hook will extract the first comment
line from the change log and use it as the commit message header. The
remainder of the commit message (if any) is used as the commit message
body. This means that so long as one detail line is added to the
change log no other commit message text is required. The following
makes for a suitable `git log` alias:

    alias gl='git log -10 --pretty=format:"%h %ci %s" | cut -c1-79'

The templates contain comment lines like:

    # @(#)Ident: Provision.pm 2013-04-15 13:52 pjf ;

These are expanded automatically by Emacs using this Lisp code:

    (setq time-stamp-active     t
          time-stamp-line-limit 10
          time-stamp-format     " %f %04y-%02m-%02d %02H:%02M %u "
          time-stamp-start      "Ident:"
          time-stamp-time-zone  "GMT"
          time-stamp-end        ";")

The alias:

    alias ident='ack "@\(#\)"'

uses the [App::Ack](https://metacpan.org/module/App::Ack) program to implement the old SYSV R4 `ident`
command

The templates for `dist.ini`, `Build.PL`, and `Makefile.PL`
contain the following comments which are interpreted by Emacs:

    # Local Variables:
    # mode: perl
    # eval: (load-project-state "[% appdir %]")
    # tab-title: [% project %]
    # tab-width: 3
    # End:

Perl mode is preferred over C-Perl mode since the former has better
syntax highlighting. Tabs are expanded to three spaces. The
`tab-title` variable is used by [Yakuake::Sessions](https://metacpan.org/module/Yakuake::Sessions) to set the tab
title for the terminal emulator. The `load-project-state` Lisp looks
like this:

    (defun load-project-state (state-file) "Recovers the TinyDesk state from file"
       (let ((session-path (concat "~/.emacs.d/config/state." state-file)))
          (if (file-exists-p session-path) (tinydesk-recover-state session-path)
             (message (concat "Not found: " state-file)))))

It assumes that the TinyDesk state file containing the list of files to edit
for the project has been saved in `~/.emacs.d/config/state.\[% appdir %\]`. To
work on a project; change directory to the working copy, edit the project
file `Build.PL` with Emacs, this will load all of the other files in the
project into separate buffers displaying each in the tab bar. This Lisp code
will load TinyDesk and turn tab bar mode on whenever a Perl file is edited:

    (add-hook 'perl-mode-hook
              '(lambda ()
                 (require 'fic-mode) (turn-on-fic-mode) (diminish 'fic-mode nil)
                 (require 'psvn) (require 'tinydesk) (tabbar-mode t)
                 (require 'tinyperl) (diminish 'tinyperl-mode nil)))

This Lisp code will do likewise when a `dist.ini` file is edited:

    (add-hook 'conf-windows-mode-hook
              '(lambda ()
                 (require 'tinydesk) (tabbar-mode t)))

# Configuration and Environment

Extends [Module::Provision::Base](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::Base). Applies these traits; `AddingFiles`,
`CreatingDistributions`, `Rendering`, and `UpdatingContent`

Defines no attributes

# Subroutines/Methods

## dist

    module_provision dist Foo::Bar 'Optional one line abstract'

Create a new distribution specified by the module name on the command line

## edit\_project

    module_provision -q edit_project

Edit the project file (one of; `dist.ini`, `Build.PL`, or
`Makefile.PL`) in the project directory. The editor defaults to
`emacs` but can be set on the command line, e.g `-o editor=vim`

## generate\_metadata

    module_provision generate_metadata

Generates the distribution metadata files

## init\_templates

    module_provision init_templates

Initialise the `.module\_provision` directory and create the `index.json` file

## module

    module_provision module Foo::Bat 'Optional one line abstract'

Creates a new module specified by the class name on the command line

## program

    module_provision program bar-cli 'Optional one line abstract'

Creates a new program specified by the program name on the command line

## show\_tab\_title

    module_provision -q show_tab_title

Print the tab title for the current project

## test

    module_provision test 11another-one.t

Creates a new test specified by the test file name on the command line

## update\_copyright\_year

    module_provision update_copyright_year 2013 2014

Substitutes the existing copyright year for the new copyright year in all
files in the `MANIFEST`

## update\_version

    module_provision update_version 0.1 0.2

Substitutes the existing version number for the new version number in all
files in the `MANIFEST`

# Diagnostics

Add `-D` to command line to turn on debug output

# Dependencies

- [Class::Usul](https://metacpan.org/module/Class::Usul)
- [Module::Provision::Base](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::Base)
- [Module::Provision::TraitFor::CreatingDistributions](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::TraitFor::CreatingDistributions)
- [Module::Provision::TraitFor::AddingFiles](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::TraitFor::AddingFiles)
- [Module::Provision::TraitFor::UpdatingContent](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Provision::TraitFor::UpdatingContent)

# Incompatibilities

There are no known incompatibilities in this module

# Bugs and Limitations

There are no known bugs in this module.  Please report problems to
http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Module-Provision.  Source
code is on Github git://github.com/pjfl/Module-Provision.git. Patches
and pull requests are welcome

# Acknowledgements

Larry Wall - For the Perl programming language

[Module::Starter](https://metacpan.org/module/Module::Starter) - For some of the documentation and tests

# Author

Peter Flanigan, `<pjfl@cpan.org>`

# License and Copyright

Copyright (c) 2013 Peter Flanigan. All rights reserved

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself. See [perlartistic](https://metacpan.org/module/perlartistic)

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
